.TH 42sh 1 "General Commands Manual"
.SH NAME
.PP
42sh \- The ROOTS SHell: a shell that don't segfault with only 2 bytes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fC42sh\fR [options] [file]
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
.RS
.nf
42sh is licensed under the Beer-Ware License by the hs24 team.
.fi
.RE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fB\fC42sh\fR is probably the best SHell on the Internet. \fB\fC42sh\fR is an equivalent of
\&'bash \-\-posix' meaning that it is intended to be a conformant implementation of
the SHell and Utilies portion of the IEEE POSIX specification.
.PP
Special built\-in commands are available, the following are fully fonctionnal:
    \- alias: define or display aliases
    \- break: exit from while, fr or until loop
    \- cd: change the working directory
    \- echo: display a line of text
    \- exec: execute comands and open, close or copy file descriptors
    \- exit: cause the shell to exit
    \- history: manipulate the history file
    \- rehash: rebuild the autocompletion cache
    \- set: set options and positional parameters
    \- source: evaluate a file or resource as a TCL script
    \- unalias: remove alias definition
    \- unset: unset options and positional parameters
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC-c\fR \fIstring\fP
If the \-c option is present, then the commands are read from \fIstring\fP\&.
.TP
\fB\fC[-+]O\fR \fIshell option\fP
Set or unset one of the shell options accepted by the shopt \fIbuiltin\fP\&.
.TP
\fB\fC--norc\fR
Ignore the resources files \fI~/.42shrc\fP and \fI/etc/42shrc\fP
.TP
\fB\fC--ast-print\fR
Display the Abstract Syntax Tree of all the commands.
.TP
\fB\fC--version\fR
Display the version on standard output and exit.
.TP
\fB\fC--help\fR
Display a usage message on standard output and exit.
.SH BUILTINS
.PP
\fB\fCalias [alias-name[=string] ...]\fR
    define or display aliases
    The alias utility shall create or define again the alias definition.
.PP
\fB\fCbreak [n]\fR
    exit from while, fr or until loop.
    The 'n' parameter is optionnal. The default and smallest value possible
    is 1. The break built\-in causes the execution to immediately
    return from a loop.
.PP
\fB\fCcd [directory | -]\fR
    change the working directory
    The argument is optionnal. If the user doesn't specify any directory.
    If no directory operand is given and the \fIHOME\fP environment variable is
    set, the \fIcd\fP command shall behave as if the parameter was the value of
    the \fIHOME\fP environment variable.
    Else, the shell shall change the working directory to the value of
    \fIdirectory\fP if valid.
.PP
\fB\fCecho [OPTION] [STRING]\fR
    Display a line of text to the standard output
    \-n: do not ouput the trailing newline character
    \-e: enable interpretation of backslash escapes
    \-E: disable interpretation of backslash escapes
.PP
\fB\fCexec [command [argument ...]]\fR
    execute comands and open, close or copy file descriptors.
    The \fIexec\fP utility shall open, copy, clode file descriptors as commanded
    through redirections from the command.
    If exec is specified with command, it shall replace the shell with
    command without creating a process. Redirections affect the current
    shell execution environment.
.PP
\fB\fCexit [n]\fR
    cause the shell to exit
    The \fIexit\fP built\-in shall cause the shell to exit with the exit number
    specified by the variable \fIn\fP\&.
.PP
\fB\fChistory [-c] [-r filename] [n]\fR
    list at most n history entries.
    If HISTTIMEFORMAT variable is set, it is passed to strftime and the input
    date of the each entry is listed.
    If \-c is specified, the history for the current session is wiped.
    If \-r is specified, the content of filename is parsed as an history file
    and the entries are added to the current session history.
.PP
\fB\fCset [options][arguments]\fR
\fB\fCset -o|+o\fR
    set options and positional parameters
    If no options or arguments are specified, set shall write the values of all
    shell variable in the collation sequence of the current locale.
.PP
\fB\fCsource filename\fR
    evaluate a file or resource as a TCL script
    This built\-in takes the content of the specified file and passes it to the
    TCL interpreter as a text script.
.PP
\fB\fCunalias alias-name|-1\fR
    remove alias definition
    \-a: remove all alias definitions frm the current shell execution
    environment
.PP
\fB\fCunset [-fv] name ...\fR
    unset options and positional parameters
    Each viariable or function specified by name shall be unset.
    If \-v is specified, name refers to a variable.
    If \-f is specified, name refers to a function
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Rémi `halfr` Audebert
.PP
Nassim `Nass` Eddequiouaq
.PP
Paul `Dettorer` Hervot
.PP
Antoine `Serialk` Pietri
.PP
Adrien `schischi` Schildknecht
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR __bash__ (1) 
.BR __beer__ (7) 
.BR __sh__ (1)
.SH BUG REPORTS
.PP
If you find a bug in 42sh, you should report it. But please make sure to run
the latest version of 42sh available at \fI
.UR http://42sh.greenit-over-the-cloud.fr
.UE \fP
.PP
To report a bug, just send a letter or sms to \fIDave Null\fP, with the following
things:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
The version number
.IP \(bu 2
If you are using FreeBSD or not
.IP \(bu 2
A description of the bug and how to reproduce it
.IP \(bu 2
A tasteful beer
.RE
